in the last video I talked about how
when faced with a machine learning
problem there are often lots of
different ideas for how to improve the
algorithm in this video let's talk about
the concepts of error analysis which
will hopefully give you a way to more
systematically make some of these
decisions if you are starting work on a
machine learning problem or building a
machine learning application is often
considered very good practice to start
not by building a very complicated
system with lots of complex features and
so on but to instead start by building a
very simple algorithm that you can
implement quickly and when I start of a
learning problem what I usually do is
spend at most one day literally at most
24 hours to try to get something really
quick and dirty frankly not at all
sophisticated system but get something
really quick and dirty running and
implement it and then test it on my
cross validation data once you've done
that you can then plot learning curves
which this is what we talked about in
the previous set of videos but plot
learning curves of the training and test
errors to try to figure out if your
learning algorithm may be suffering from
high bias or high variance or something
else and use that to try to decide if
having more data more features and so on
are likely to help and the reason that
this is a good approach is often when
you're just starting out on the learning
problem there's really no way to tell in
advance whether you need more complex
because or whether you need more more
data or something else and it's just
very hard to tell in advance that is in
the absence of evidence in the absence
of seeing a learning curve it's just
incredibly difficult to figure out where
you should be spending your time and as
often by implementing even a very very
quick and dirty implementation and by
plotting learning curves that that helps
you make these decisions so if you like
you can think of this as a way of
avoiding what's sometimes called
premature optimization in
programming and this is idea that just
says that we should let evidence guide
our decisions on where to spend our time
rather than use gut feeling which is
often wrong
in addition to plotting learning curves
one other thing that is often very
useful to do is what's called error
analysis and what I mean by that is that
when building say a spam classifier I
will often look at my cross validation
set and manually look at the emails that
my algorithm is making Arizona so look
at the spam emails and non-spam emails
that the algorithm is misclassifying and
see if you can spot - any systematic
patterns in what type of examples of
this misclassifying and often by doing
that this is the process that will
inspire you to design new features or
they'll tell you whether the current
things will current shortcomings of the
system and give you the inspiration you
need to come up with improvements to it
concretely here's a specific example
let's say you've built a spam classifier
and you have 500 examples in your
cross-validation set and let's say in
this example that the algorithm has a
very high error rate and in this
classifies 100 of these trials
validation examples so what I do is
manually examine these hundred errors
and manually categorize them based on
things like what type of email it is and
what cues or what features you think
might have helped the algorithm classify
them correctly so specifically by what
type of email it is you know if I look
through these hundred errors I might
find that maybe the most common types of
spam emails in this class files or maybe
emails on farmer owns pharmacies that
they see emails trying to sell drugs
maybe emails that are trying to sell
replicas of fake watches fake
those things maybe have some emails
trying to spew passwords these are also
called phishing emails because that's
another big category of emails and maybe
other categories so in terms of classify
what type of email is I would actually
go through and count up you know 100
emails maybe I find the top of the
mislabel emails are farming emails and
maybe four of them emails trying to sell
replicas they sell fake watches or
something and maybe I find that fifty
three of them are these on what's called
phishing emails basically emails trying
to persuade you to give them give them
your password and 31 emails are other
types of emails and this by counting up
the number of emails in these different
categories that you might discover for
example that the algorithm is doing
Reaper ticularly poorly on emails trying
to steal passwords and that might
suggest that it might be worth your
effort to look more carefully at that
type of email and see if you can come up
with better features to categorize them
correctly and also what I might do is
look at what cues or what features
additional features might have helped
the algorithm classify the emails so
let's say that some of our hypotheses
about things or features that might help
us cause my emails better are trying to
detect deliberate misspellings versus
unusual email routing versus unusual you
know Stanley punctuation such as if
people use a lot of exclamation marks
and once again I would manually go
through and let's say I find five cases
of this and 16 of this and 32 of this
and a bunch of other types of emails as
well and if this is what you get on your
cross validation so then it really tells
you that you know maybe deliberate
spellings is a sufficiently rare
phenomenon that maybe it's not worth a
lot of time trying to write write
algorithms to detect that but if you
find a lot of spammers are using you
know unusual punctuation then maybe
that's a strong sign that it might
actually be worth your while to spend
the time to develop develop more
sophisticated features based on the
punch
so the sort of error analysis which is
really the process of manually examining
the mistakes that the algorithm makes
can often help guide you to the most
fruitful avenues to pursue and this also
explains why I often recommend
implementing a quick and dirty
implementation of an algorithm what we
really want to do is figure out what are
the most difficult examples for an
algorithm to classify and very often for
different algorithms with different
learning algorithms they'll often find
you know similar categories of examples
difficult and by having a quick and
dirty implementation that's often a
quick way to let you identify some
errors and quickly identify what are the
hot examples so that you can focus your
efforts on those mostly when developing
learning algorithms one other useful tip
is to make sure that you have a way you
have a numerical evaluation of your
learning algorithm and what I mean by
that is that if you're developing a
learning algorithm is often incredibly
helpful if you have a way of evaluating
your learning algorithm that just gives
you back a single real number
maybe accuracy maybe error but the
single real number that tells you how
well your learning RM is doing I'll talk
more about this specific concept in
later videos but here's a specific
example let's say we're trying to decide
whether or not we should treat words
like discount discounts discounted
discounting as the same word so you know
maybe one way to do that is to just look
at the first few characters in the world
that you if you just look at the first
few characters of a word then you you
figure out that maybe all of these words
are roughly have similar meanings in
natural language processing the way that
this is done is actually using a type of
software called stemming software if you
ever want to do this yourself search on
a website engine for the porter stemmer
and though
you know one reasonable piece of
software for doing this sort of stemming
which will let you treat all of these
words discount discounts and so on as
the same word but using a dubbing
software that basically looks at the
first few alphabets of a word more or
less it can help but it can hurt and it
can hurt because for example the
software made mistake the worst universe
and university as being the same thing
because you know these two words start
off with very similar card with the same
alphabet so if you're trying to decide
whether or not to use stemming software
for a spam classifier it's not always
easy to tell and in particular error
analysis may not actually be helpful to
for deciding if this sort of stemming
idea is a good idea instead the best way
to figure out if using stemming software
is going to help your classifier is if
you have a way to very quickly just try
it and see if it works
and in order to do this having a way to
numerically evaluate your algorithm is
going to be very helpful concretely the
maybe the most natural thing to do is to
look at the cross-validation error of
the algorithms performance with and
without stemming so if you run your
algorithm without stemming and you end
up with let's say 5 percent
classification error and you rerun it
and you end up with that's a three
percent classification error then this
decrease in error very quickly allows
you to decide that you know looks like
using stemming is a good idea for this
particular problem there's a very
natural single real number evaluation
metric maybe the cross validation error
will see later examples we're coming up
with this sort of single real number
evaluation metric male it'll need a
little bit more work but as we'll see
the later video doing so but also then
let you make these decisions much more
quickly of say whether or not to use
stemming and just as one more quick
example let's say that you're also
trying to decide whether or not to
distinguish between upper versus lower
case so you know is the word mom with
upper case M versus lower case M should
that be treated as the same word or as
different words should these be treated
as the same feature or as different
features and so once again because we
have a way to evaluate our algorithm if
you try this out you know if I stop
distinguishing upper and lower case
maybe I end up with 3.2 percent error
and I find that therefore this is a dis
that's worse then you know if I use only
stemming and so this lets me very
quickly decide to go ahead and to
distinguish will do not distinguish
between upper and lower case so when
you're developing a learning algorithm
very often you'll be trying out lots of
new ideas and lots of new versions of
your learning algorithm if every time
you try out a new idea if you end up
manually examining a bunch of examples
again
to see if it got better or worse you
know that's going to make it really hard
to make decision
is on do you stemming or not do you
distinguish upper and lower case or not
but by having a single real number
evaluation metric you can then just look
and see oh did he ever go up a little
down and you can use that to much more
rapidly try out new ideas and almost
right away tell if your new idea has
improved or worse in the performance of
the learning algorithm and this will let
you often make much faster progress so
the recommended strongly recommended way
to do error analysis is on the
cross-validation set rather than the
test set but you know there are people
that will do this on the test set even
though that's definitely less math math
the appropriate so they're less
recommended waiting thing to do than to
do error analysis on your
cross-validation set so to wrap up this
video when starting on the new machine
learning problem what I almost always
recommend is to implement a quick and
dirty implementation of your learning
algorithm and I've almost never seen
anyone spend too little time on this
quick and dirty implementation of pretty
much all pretty much only ever seen
people spend much too much time building
their first you know supposedly quick
and dirty implementation so really don't
worry about it being too quick or don't
worry about it being too dirty but
really implement something as quickly as
you can and once you have the initial
implementation this has been a powerful
tool for deciding where to spend your
time links because first you can look at
the errors in base and do the sort of
error analysis to see what in mistakes
and makes and you start to inspire
further development and second assuming
your quick and dirty implementation
incorporated a single real number
evaluation metric this can then be a
vehicle for you to try out different
ideas and quickly see if the different
ideas you're trying out to improve
performance of your algorithm and
therefore let you may be much more
quickly make decisions about what things
mm or what things to incorporate into
your learning